title: Washington reads a settler siege and argues about its own socialists
image: /media/times-of-palestine-us-press.svg
category: uspress
date: 2026-08-13T08:20:00Z
---
What Washington is reading this morning, from the American front pages and the think tanks that brief them.

The New York Times put the occupied West Bank at the top of its Middle East file. Two Palestinian families trapped in their homes by settlers, it reported, have cast a spotlight on the army's failure to curtail settler violence — the Qusra siege, arriving in the paper that Congress reads over breakfast.

Below it the Times ran the Gulf's response to the Hormuz crisis: exporters spending billions to build routes around the strait, on the reasoning that a ceasefire would not make the chokepoint safe again.

The Washington Post's world lead was Lebanon, and the distance between an American president calling the ceasefire a success and residents of the Israeli-held zone calling it a prison. Its national security desk published the Pentagon's own accounting of last year's Yemen campaign: close to 400 civilians killed or wounded, in the first operation run after the office that existed to reduce such harm was dismantled.

The Hill gave its international page to the clock on Gaza. Nine months into the effort to remake the Strip, it wrote, Netanyahu's rejection of the fifteen-point roadmap is the latest blow to a plan with no successor drafted. Its Hormuz item was Richard Haass, the former diplomat, contradicting Trump flatly: nobody is in total control of the strait.

Axios and Politico spent the day on Wisconsin, where a moderate Democrat beat a democratic socialist by roughly three thousand votes after trailing by twenty points in his own polling.

That result lands on a fresh think-tank argument. The Arab Center Washington DC, the capital's Arab-perspective research institute, published Gregory Aftandilian's case that the Gaza war has moved Democratic voters on Israel and Palestine and lifted democratic socialist candidates with it. His thesis now has a counter-example in it, which is what makes the coming primaries worth watching from here.
